
-----------------

-----------------
Comments: 

New Comment: 
I checked in the fix.  IoFilterLifeCycleManager now runs IoFilter callbacks outside of
synchronize blocks.  Please test the fix and close this issue.Thanks,<br/>Trustin 


On issue key DIRMINA-169 the Builder pattern might have been discussed on the following comment: 
==============================
I've recently run into this bug myself I think. The fix doesn't seem to help. It's a real
showstopper since my SocketAcceptor hangs as well and no more connections are accepted.
I've reassigned the issue to me and I will investigate further tonight. My thread dump:
"ThreadPoolWorker-9" prio=1 tid=0x0882f280 nid=0x281d waiting for monitor entry <span
class="error">&#91;0x880f7000..0x880f7780&#93;</span><br/>       at
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager.decreaseCountSafely(IoFilterLifeCycleManager.java:182)<ul
class="alternate" type="square">	<li>waiting to lock &lt;0x928b5590&gt; (a
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager)<br/>       at
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager.callOnPostRemove(IoFilterLifeCycleManager.java:176)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.deregister(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:358)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.remove(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:295)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x9787b1d8&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.clear(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:304)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x9787b1d8&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$2.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:168)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.callNextSessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:453)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.access$700(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:52)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$EntryImpl$1.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:742)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter.processEvent(ThreadPoolFilter.java:687)<br/>      
at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker.processEvents(ThreadPoolFilter.java:421)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker.run(ThreadPoolFilter.java:376)</li></ul>
"ThreadPoolWorker-8" prio=1 tid=0x8a5e1268 nid=0x281c in Object.wait() <span
class="error">&#91;0x889ff000..0x889ff800&#93;</span><br/>       at
java.lang.Object.wait(Native Method)<ul class="alternate" type="square">	<li>waiting on
&lt;0x97879a28&gt; (a org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker)<br/>       at
java.lang.Thread.join(Thread.java:1103)</li>	<li>locked &lt;0x97879a28&gt; (a
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker)<br/>       at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter.destroy(ThreadPoolFilter.java:209)<br/>       at
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager.callDestroyIfNecessary(IoFilterLifeCycleManager.java:214)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x928b5590&gt; (a org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager)<br/>      
at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.deregister(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:363)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.remove(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:295)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x9787be90&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.clear(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:304)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x9787be90&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$2.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:168)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.callNextSessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:453)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.access$700(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:52)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$EntryImpl$1.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:742)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter.processEvent(ThreadPoolFilter.java:687)<br/>      
at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker.processEvents(ThreadPoolFilter.java:421)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker.run(ThreadPoolFilter.java:376)</li></ul>
"SocketAcceptor-0" prio=1 tid=0x087b1cc0 nid=0x105d waiting for monitor entry <span
class="error">&#91;0x8c6ff000..0x8c6ff680&#93;</span><br/>       at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.register(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:316)<ul
class="alternate" type="square">	<li>waiting to lock &lt;0x928b5590&gt; (a
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager)<br/>       at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.addLast(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:271)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x9787c108&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.DefaultIoFilterChainBuilder.buildFilterChain(DefaultIoFilterChainBuilder.java:241)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketAcceptorDelegate$Worker.processSessions(SocketAcceptorDelegate.java:411)</li></ul> 
==============================

On issue key DIRMINA-169 the Chain pattern might have been discussed on the following comment: 
==============================
I've recently run into this bug myself I think. The fix doesn't seem to help. It's a real
showstopper since my SocketAcceptor hangs as well and no more connections are accepted.
I've reassigned the issue to me and I will investigate further tonight. My thread dump:
"ThreadPoolWorker-9" prio=1 tid=0x0882f280 nid=0x281d waiting for monitor entry <span
class="error">&#91;0x880f7000..0x880f7780&#93;</span><br/>       at
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager.decreaseCountSafely(IoFilterLifeCycleManager.java:182)<ul
class="alternate" type="square">	<li>waiting to lock &lt;0x928b5590&gt; (a
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager)<br/>       at
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager.callOnPostRemove(IoFilterLifeCycleManager.java:176)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.deregister(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:358)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.remove(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:295)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x9787b1d8&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.clear(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:304)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x9787b1d8&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$2.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:168)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.callNextSessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:453)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.access$700(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:52)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$EntryImpl$1.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:742)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter.processEvent(ThreadPoolFilter.java:687)<br/>      
at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker.processEvents(ThreadPoolFilter.java:421)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker.run(ThreadPoolFilter.java:376)</li></ul>
"ThreadPoolWorker-8" prio=1 tid=0x8a5e1268 nid=0x281c in Object.wait() <span
class="error">&#91;0x889ff000..0x889ff800&#93;</span><br/>       at
java.lang.Object.wait(Native Method)<ul class="alternate" type="square">	<li>waiting on
&lt;0x97879a28&gt; (a org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker)<br/>       at
java.lang.Thread.join(Thread.java:1103)</li>	<li>locked &lt;0x97879a28&gt; (a
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker)<br/>       at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter.destroy(ThreadPoolFilter.java:209)<br/>       at
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager.callDestroyIfNecessary(IoFilterLifeCycleManager.java:214)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x928b5590&gt; (a org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager)<br/>      
at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.deregister(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:363)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.remove(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:295)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x9787be90&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.clear(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:304)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x9787be90&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$2.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:168)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.callNextSessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:453)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.access$700(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:52)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$EntryImpl$1.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:742)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter.processEvent(ThreadPoolFilter.java:687)<br/>      
at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker.processEvents(ThreadPoolFilter.java:421)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker.run(ThreadPoolFilter.java:376)</li></ul>
"SocketAcceptor-0" prio=1 tid=0x087b1cc0 nid=0x105d waiting for monitor entry <span
class="error">&#91;0x8c6ff000..0x8c6ff680&#93;</span><br/>       at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.register(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:316)<ul
class="alternate" type="square">	<li>waiting to lock &lt;0x928b5590&gt; (a
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager)<br/>       at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.addLast(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:271)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x9787c108&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.DefaultIoFilterChainBuilder.buildFilterChain(DefaultIoFilterChainBuilder.java:241)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketAcceptorDelegate$Worker.processSessions(SocketAcceptorDelegate.java:411)</li></ul> 
==============================

New Comment: 
I've recently run into this bug myself I think. The fix doesn't seem to help. It's a real
showstopper since my SocketAcceptor hangs as well and no more connections are accepted.
I've reassigned the issue to me and I will investigate further tonight. My thread dump:
"ThreadPoolWorker-9" prio=1 tid=0x0882f280 nid=0x281d waiting for monitor entry <span
class="error">&#91;0x880f7000..0x880f7780&#93;</span><br/>       at
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager.decreaseCountSafely(IoFilterLifeCycleManager.java:182)<ul
class="alternate" type="square">	<li>waiting to lock &lt;0x928b5590&gt; (a
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager)<br/>       at
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager.callOnPostRemove(IoFilterLifeCycleManager.java:176)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.deregister(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:358)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.remove(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:295)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x9787b1d8&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.clear(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:304)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x9787b1d8&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$2.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:168)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.callNextSessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:453)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.access$700(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:52)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$EntryImpl$1.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:742)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter.processEvent(ThreadPoolFilter.java:687)<br/>      
at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker.processEvents(ThreadPoolFilter.java:421)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker.run(ThreadPoolFilter.java:376)</li></ul>
"ThreadPoolWorker-8" prio=1 tid=0x8a5e1268 nid=0x281c in Object.wait() <span
class="error">&#91;0x889ff000..0x889ff800&#93;</span><br/>       at
java.lang.Object.wait(Native Method)<ul class="alternate" type="square">	<li>waiting on
&lt;0x97879a28&gt; (a org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker)<br/>       at
java.lang.Thread.join(Thread.java:1103)</li>	<li>locked &lt;0x97879a28&gt; (a
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker)<br/>       at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter.destroy(ThreadPoolFilter.java:209)<br/>       at
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager.callDestroyIfNecessary(IoFilterLifeCycleManager.java:214)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x928b5590&gt; (a org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager)<br/>      
at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.deregister(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:363)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.remove(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:295)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x9787be90&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.clear(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:304)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x9787be90&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$2.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:168)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.callNextSessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:453)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.access$700(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:52)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$EntryImpl$1.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:742)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter.processEvent(ThreadPoolFilter.java:687)<br/>      
at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker.processEvents(ThreadPoolFilter.java:421)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker.run(ThreadPoolFilter.java:376)</li></ul>
"SocketAcceptor-0" prio=1 tid=0x087b1cc0 nid=0x105d waiting for monitor entry <span
class="error">&#91;0x8c6ff000..0x8c6ff680&#93;</span><br/>       at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.register(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:316)<ul
class="alternate" type="square">	<li>waiting to lock &lt;0x928b5590&gt; (a
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager)<br/>       at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.addLast(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:271)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0x9787c108&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.common.DefaultIoFilterChainBuilder.buildFilterChain(DefaultIoFilterChainBuilder.java:241)<br/>
      at
org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketAcceptorDelegate$Worker.processSessions(SocketAcceptorDelegate.java:411)</li></ul> 


New Comment: 
I made a stupid mistake in my fix.  Now it is fixed.  Please test again. 


New Comment: 
Thanks Trustin. I will try again. 


New Comment: 
My recent fix seems to have resolved this problem. 


New Comment: 
Verified. 


On issue key DIRMINA-169 the chain pattern might have been discussed on the following comment: 
==============================
The fix seems to have introduced a new problem. Even though I configured my
ThreadPoolFilter's maximumPoolSize to be 10 I see over 600 worker threads when I do a
thread dump. All threads are stuck in ThreadPoolFilter.destroy(). See the thread dump
below. My app dies after some time probably because it's out of resources.Here's a typical
thread dump for one of the threads. All worker threads seem to be in the same
state."Worker-623" prio=1 tid=0x8cae5260 nid=0x4f10 in Object.wait() <span
class="error">&#91;0x75ee5000..0x75ee5700&#93;</span><br/>      at
java.lang.Object.wait(Native Method)<br/>      at
java.lang.Thread.join(Thread.java:1103)<ul class="alternate" type="square">	<li>locked
&lt;0x97457060&gt; (a org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker)<br/>      at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter.destroy(ThreadPoolFilter.java:209)<br/>      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager.callDestroyIfNecessary(IoFilterLifeCycleManager.java:214)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.deregister(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:363)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.remove(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:295)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0xb2578250&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.clear(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:304)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0xb2578250&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$2.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:168)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.callNextSessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:453)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.access$700(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:52)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$EntryImpl$1.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:742)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter.processEvent(ThreadPoolFilter.java:687)<br/>     
at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker.processEvents(ThreadPoolFilter.java:421)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker.run(ThreadPoolFilter.java:376)</li></ul>Without
the original synchronization in IoFilterLifeCycleManager it's possible that two threads
call destroy() at the same time beacuse after thread A has decreased the ref counter and
exited the synchronization block but before the call to destroy, another thread may have
added the filter to a chain and then removed it again.To honor the expected sequence of
life cycle calls (init - destroy - init - destroy - etc) on a filter I think we will have
to reintroduce the synchronization we had in IoFilterLifeCycleManager before the fix. We
will have to come up with another fix for the original problem. Or maybe it will be
possible to make some changes to AbstractIoFilterChain.I hope this bug report made any
sense! <img class="emoticon"
src="https://issues.apache.org/jira/images/icons/emoticons/wink.png" height="16"
width="16" align="absmiddle" alt="" border="0"/> 
==============================

On issue key DIRMINA-169 the Chain pattern might have been discussed on the following comment: 
==============================
The fix seems to have introduced a new problem. Even though I configured my
ThreadPoolFilter's maximumPoolSize to be 10 I see over 600 worker threads when I do a
thread dump. All threads are stuck in ThreadPoolFilter.destroy(). See the thread dump
below. My app dies after some time probably because it's out of resources.Here's a typical
thread dump for one of the threads. All worker threads seem to be in the same
state."Worker-623" prio=1 tid=0x8cae5260 nid=0x4f10 in Object.wait() <span
class="error">&#91;0x75ee5000..0x75ee5700&#93;</span><br/>      at
java.lang.Object.wait(Native Method)<br/>      at
java.lang.Thread.join(Thread.java:1103)<ul class="alternate" type="square">	<li>locked
&lt;0x97457060&gt; (a org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker)<br/>      at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter.destroy(ThreadPoolFilter.java:209)<br/>      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager.callDestroyIfNecessary(IoFilterLifeCycleManager.java:214)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.deregister(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:363)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.remove(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:295)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0xb2578250&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.clear(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:304)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0xb2578250&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$2.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:168)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.callNextSessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:453)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.access$700(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:52)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$EntryImpl$1.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:742)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter.processEvent(ThreadPoolFilter.java:687)<br/>     
at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker.processEvents(ThreadPoolFilter.java:421)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker.run(ThreadPoolFilter.java:376)</li></ul>Without
the original synchronization in IoFilterLifeCycleManager it's possible that two threads
call destroy() at the same time beacuse after thread A has decreased the ref counter and
exited the synchronization block but before the call to destroy, another thread may have
added the filter to a chain and then removed it again.To honor the expected sequence of
life cycle calls (init - destroy - init - destroy - etc) on a filter I think we will have
to reintroduce the synchronization we had in IoFilterLifeCycleManager before the fix. We
will have to come up with another fix for the original problem. Or maybe it will be
possible to make some changes to AbstractIoFilterChain.I hope this bug report made any
sense! <img class="emoticon"
src="https://issues.apache.org/jira/images/icons/emoticons/wink.png" height="16"
width="16" align="absmiddle" alt="" border="0"/> 
==============================

New Comment: 
The fix seems to have introduced a new problem. Even though I configured my
ThreadPoolFilter's maximumPoolSize to be 10 I see over 600 worker threads when I do a
thread dump. All threads are stuck in ThreadPoolFilter.destroy(). See the thread dump
below. My app dies after some time probably because it's out of resources.Here's a typical
thread dump for one of the threads. All worker threads seem to be in the same
state."Worker-623" prio=1 tid=0x8cae5260 nid=0x4f10 in Object.wait() <span
class="error">&#91;0x75ee5000..0x75ee5700&#93;</span><br/>      at
java.lang.Object.wait(Native Method)<br/>      at
java.lang.Thread.join(Thread.java:1103)<ul class="alternate" type="square">	<li>locked
&lt;0x97457060&gt; (a org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker)<br/>      at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter.destroy(ThreadPoolFilter.java:209)<br/>      at
org.apache.mina.common.support.IoFilterLifeCycleManager.callDestroyIfNecessary(IoFilterLifeCycleManager.java:214)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.deregister(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:363)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.remove(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:295)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0xb2578250&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.clear(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:304)</li>	<li>locked
&lt;0xb2578250&gt; (a org.apache.mina.transport.socket.nio.support.SocketFilterChain)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$2.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:168)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.callNextSessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:453)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain.access$700(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:52)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.common.support.AbstractIoFilterChain$EntryImpl$1.sessionClosed(AbstractIoFilterChain.java:742)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter.processEvent(ThreadPoolFilter.java:687)<br/>     
at
org.apache.mina.filter.ThreadPoolFilter$Worker.processEvents(ThreadPoolFilter.java:421)<br/>
     at
org.apache.mina.filter.Thr